Corsaro
=======

Corsaro is a software suite for performing large-scale analysis of trace
data. It was specifically designed to be used with passive traces captured by
darknets, but the overall structure is generic enough to be used with any type
of passive trace data.

Because of the scale of passive trace data, Corsaro has been designed from the
ground up to be fast and efficient, both in terms of run-time and output data
size. For more details about the design goals of Corsaro, see the goals section
of the manual.

Corsaro allows high-speed analysis of trace data on a per-packet basis and
provides a mechanism for aggregating results based on customizable time
intervals. Trace data is read using the
http://research.wand.net.nz/software/libtrace.php trace processing library, and
a high-level IO abstraction layer allows results to be transparently written to
compressed files, using threaded IO. The actual trace analysis logic is clearly
separated into a set of plugins, several of which are shipped with Corsaro. For
more information about how the pieces of Corsaro fit together, see the
Architecture section of the manual.

In addition to the Core Plugins which are shipped with Corsaro, the plugin
framework makes the creation of new plugins as simple as possible. The low
overhead involved in creating a new plugin, coupled with the efficiency and
reliability of Corsaro means that it can be used both to perform ad-hoc
exploratory investigations as well as in a production context to carry out
large-scale near-realtime analysis. To learn how to create a plugin, or perform
analysis on existing Corsaro results, see the Tutorials section.

Corsaro can be used both as a library and as a stand-alone application for
processing any format of trace data that libtrace supports. The Corsaro
distribution also includes several other supporting tools for basic analysis of
Corsaro output data. For information on using the Corsaro application and the
other tools included, see the Tools section.

Download
========

The latest version of Corsaro is 2.1.0
http://www.caida.org/tools/measurement/corsaro/downloads/corsaro-2.1.0.tar.gz
and was released on June 11 2014.

We also maintain a detailed Changelog at
http://www.caida.org/tools/measurement/corsaro/docs/changelog.html

Dependencies        {#dependencies}
============

Corsaro is written in C and should compile with any ANSI compliant C Compiler
which supports the C99 standard. Please email corsaro-info@caida.org with any
issues.

Corsaro requires [libtrace](http://research.wand.net.nz/software/libtrace.php)
version 3.0.14 or higher. (3.0.8 or higher can be used if the libwandio patch
included in the corsaro distribution is applied).

Usage               {#usage}
=====

Corsaro has many different usage scenarios which are outlined in this manual,
but if you are looking to just run the analysis engine with the bundled plugins,
see the Corsaro section of the Tools page of the manual
(http://www.caida.org/tools/measurement/corsaro/docs/tools.html#tool_corsaro).


Documentation       {#docs}
=============

The online Corsaro Documentation
(http://www.caida.org/tools/measurement/corsaro/docs/) is the best source of
information about using Corsaro. It contains full API documentation, usage
instructions for the Corsaro tools. It also has tutorials about writing Corsaro
plugins and using the libcorsaro library to perform analysis on
Corsaro-generated data.
